JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
Donald Trump opens a new hotel
near the White
House, as Hillary Clinton
continues to rally
voters in Florida -- a look at
the state of
the race through polling and
shifts in campaign
spending.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Wednesday:
After heated outcry, the
Pentagon halts efforts
to make veterans pay back
improper bonuses
given 10 years ago.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the rise of
white nationalism
during this election and why one
group heralds
a new generation of separatists
vying for
more political and economic
power.
MATTHEW HEIMBACH, Co-Founder,
Traditionalist
Worker Party: I would dare
anyone to go into
the hollers of West Virginia or
to Kentucky,
and look in the eyes of white
working-class
men, women and children, and
tell them that
they have any power in this
system whatsoever.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: With 13 days
to go, the
presidential campaign ran the
gamut today,
from rallies to ribbon-cutting.
John Yang begins our coverage.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
If people get out and vote, we
will have a
victory on November the 8th.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I'm asking America to join me in
dreaming
big.
JOHN YANG: Scenes of two
campaigns today just
minutes apart.
Donald Trump taking time away
from the stump
to tend to other business,
officially opening
the new Trump Hotel on
Pennsylvania Avenue
in Washington, D.C.,
DONALD TRUMP: My theme today is
five words,
under budget and ahead of
schedule.
Today is a metaphor for what we
can accomplish
for this country.
JOHN YANG: Hillary Clinton
campaigning in
battleground Florida on her 69th
birthday
suggesting a darker side to
Trump's ribbon-cutting.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: He
relied on undocumented
workers to make his project
cheaper.
And most of the products in the
rooms were
made overseas.
JOHN YANG: Others are getting in
on the campaign
combat, too.
DONALD TRUMP: Congratulations,
Newt, on last
night.
JOHN YANG: Today, Trump publicly
praised House
Speaker Newt Gingrich for taking
on FOX News
Megyn Kelly over the sexual
allegations against
the nominee.
NEWT GINGRICH (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I'm sick and tired of people
like you using
language that is inflammatory
that is not
true.
MEGYN KELLY, FOX News: Excuse
me, Mr. Speaker.
You have no idea whether it's
true or not.
What we know is that...
(CROSSTALK)
NEWT GINGRICH: Hillary Clinton
in a secret
speech in Brazil to a bank that
pays her $225,000
saying her dream is an open
border, where
600 million people could come to
America,
that's not worth covering?
MEGYN KELLY: That is worth
covering, and we
did.
NEWT GINGRICH: And you want to
go back through
the tapes on your show recently?
You are fascinated with sex, and
you don't
care about public policy.
JOHN YANG: And after Vice
President Biden
said he'd like to take Trump
behind the high
school gym, Trump said bring it
on.
DONALD TRUMP: Did you see where
Biden wants
to take me?
To the back of the barn.
Me.
He wants to.
I would love that.
JOHN YANG: Trump returned to
campaigning this
afternoon in another crucial
state, North
Carolina.
As the candidates drive to the
finish, Republicans
are saying promised there would
be no honeymoon
if Clinton wins the White House
and the GOP
holds the House.
Oversight Committee Chairman
Jason Chaffetz
told The Washington Post there
would be immediate
hearings into Clinton's time at
the State
Department.
He said they already have two
years' worth
of material lined up.
Meanwhile, Donald Trump Jr. told
the "NewsHour"
that the people he's met during
the campaign
has him thinking about a
political future
for himself.
DONALD TRUMP JR., Son of Donald
Trump: It'd
be an honor to be able to one do
that.
I think I have got to get my
kids through
school, and after this, I may
need a good
10-year break from politics.
But, you know, again, there is a
rush to it.
I mean, there is something very
exciting and
very moving and humbling when
you are speaking
with those people.
JOHN YANG: So, someday, there
could be another
candidate named Trump.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: Pakistan's
city of Quetta virtually closed
down to mourn
61 victims of a massacre at a
police academy.
The assault, late Monday,
targeted cadets
as they slept.
More than half-a-million people
live in Quetta,
but today the streets were
mostly empty as
businesses and offices
memorialized the victims.
Both an Islamic State affiliate
and a Taliban
splinter group have claimed
responsibility.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The Taliban is
denying it
kidnapped and killed 26
civilians in Afghanistan.
The victims were taken to a
hospital morgue
today.
They had been abducted in the
remote central
province of Ghor on Tuesday.
Farther east, Taliban fighters
did cut the
main highway linking Kabul to
Kandahar.
It's the latest in a series of
assaults.
JUDY WOODRUFF: New warnings
today from Iraq
that Islamic State fighters in
Mosul are killing
and kidnapping scores of
civilians.
At the same time, thousands of
others are
fleeing to freedom, as
government troops advance.
Jonathan Rugman of Independent
Television
News reports from the front
lines.
JONATHAN RUGMAN: The road to
Mosul is paved
with bad intentions, the
smoldering oil drums
and tires of ISIS fighters who
hoped the smoke
would save them from coalition
airstrikes,
and the skeletons of cars driven
by suicide
bombers towards the front line.
Behind this wall of earth lies a
village called
Bazwaia, this the border of a
shrinking caliphate
of fear.
Bazwaia is the only village now
lying between
us and Mosul, which lies six
miles down the
road from here.
At this rate, Iraqi special
forces will be
in the suburbs of the city
within the next
few days.
All the homes lie abandoned, but
this one
is full of surprises, for, if
and when the
owners return, they will find a
Russian T-54
tank parked in their living
room, an attempt
by the jihadists to hide it from
airstrikes.
Running along the back garden is
an ISIS tunnel
stretching for hundreds of
meters, complete
with breathing holes for the
fighters below.
Last night, Iraqi troops thought
they heard
somebody inside, so they fired
into it and
set it alight.
And villagers who survived the
fierce bombardment
of the last 10 days are now
leaving, heading
through the fields to freedom
after enduring
more than two years of ISIS
rule.
This dusty refugee camp is the
home which
awaits them, the men of fighting
age at first
held at gunpoint amid checks
they are not
ISIS militants themselves.
Along the outside of the camp
fence, the tears
of new arrivals, those who
escaped ISIS before
the militants arrived now
reunited with those
who were trapped and couldn't
leave until
now.
Over 10,000 have been displaced
since this
offensive began, 1,000 arriving
here this
morning.
And, as the army advances
towards Mosul, many
more are expected to arrive.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In Israel, 13
people have
been charged with inciting
violence in a video
showing Jewish extremists at a
wedding.
It showed rowdy celebrants
holding weapons
and even stabbing a picture of a
Palestinian
toddler.
The child had died when his
family's home
was firebombed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: French officials
have finished
clearing the Calais migrant camp
given the
name the Jungle ahead of
schedule.
More than 6,000 people were
relocated to other
sites.
Their departure left
firefighters to fight
fires set by some of the camp
dwellers.
The regional prefect said it's a
custom among
Afghan migrants.
FABIENNE BUCCIO, Calais Regional
Prefect (through
translator): They have told us
that it's a
tradition which is very
established: When
you go, you burn.
So we organized ourselves in
advance.
Firefighters are actually here
24 hours a
day, so there's no big risk of
the fire spreading.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, the
U.N. reports
2016 is now the deadliest year
on record for
migrants trying to reach Europe.
It says that at least 3,800
people have died
trying to cross the
Mediterranean Sea, more
than all of last year.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Two
earthquakes rocked Central
Italy tonight, sending
shockwaves across the
country just two months after
another quake
killed nearly 300 people.
The new tremors were centered
six miles below
ground near the town of Visso,
110 miles north
of Rome.
Around Visso, several old
churches and other
buildings collapsed into rubble.
The quakes also closed some
roads and injured
two people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And this was a
mixed day on
Wall Street.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 30
points to close at 18199.
The Nasdaq fell 33 points, and
the S&P 500
slipped three.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Still to come
on the "NewsHour":
where the most money is being
spent two weeks
before Election Day; the secret
computer codes
trying to sway your political
opinions; reprieve
for soldiers hit with an
unexpected bill;
and much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We dig in now to
the numbers
in the race for the White House,
with most
national and battleground state
polls showing
Hillary Clinton ahead.
As the number of undecided
voters shrink by
the day, we are joined by two
people who have
made a career in polling.
Democratic pollster Peter Hart
is founder
of Hart Research and Associates.
He is fresh from conducting a
focus group
of voters in Charlotte, North
Carolina.
And Whit Ayres, he's a
Republican pollster
and author of the book "2016 and
Beyond: How
Republicans Can Elect a
President in the New
America."
And welcome to both of you.
Let's talk about where this race
stands nationally.
Peter, what does it look like?
PETER HART, Democratic Pollster:
Well, it
looks pretty uphill if you're
Donald Trump
and on that side.
You look at Hillary Clinton, she
stands in
much better shape, and the
organizational
efforts who are going to be
important for
her.
But I think she is primed to do
very well
on election night.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
it, Whit?
WHIT AYRES, Republican Pollster:
If you look
at an average of recent polls,
Judy, Hillary
Clinton is ahead by about 6
percentage points.
To put that in perspective, Mitt
Romney lost
to Barack Obama in 2012 by four
points, and
John McCain lost to Barack Obama
in 2008 by
seven points.
So, the deficit now is somewhere
between the
2008 and 2012 numbers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Peter, if
people watching
want to know, OK, who and what
are contributing
to her doing well and his not
doing as well,
how would you describe that?
PETER HART: Well, she has
broadened beyond
the traditional Democratic
coalition, and
she's reaching across to
independents.
But she's doing exceptionally
well with women
at this stage in the game.
I think that all the troubles
that Donald
Trump has had and his
difficulties have parlayed
a situation where independent
women are moving
across.
And, also, women who have
college education,
that vote went for Romney four
years ago.
It certainly is going to be
Democratic this
time around.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And non-white.
PETER HART: Oh, definitely the
non-white voters
are there.
And the millennials are also
very strong.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Whit, what about
Donald Trump?
Where is he doing well and where
is he struggling?
WHIT AYRES: Donald Trump has
based his entire
campaign on getting a higher
turnout of whites
and getting a large proportion
of whites.
The problem with that is that
every single
presidential election since
1996, the proportion
of whites has gone down by two,
three, or
four percentage point.
This year will probably be about
70 percent
white and 30 percent non-white.
But trying to win a national
election in this
environment by getting a larger
and larger
share of a smaller and smaller
proportion
of the electorate is a losing
strategic proposition.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Having said that,
Peter, you
come, as we said, from
conducting this focus
group last night, undecided
voters, Charlotte,
North Carolina.
PETER HART: Late deciders.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Late deciders.
PETER HART: OK.
So these are people who waited
until after
the convention and have now
jumped in, and
some of them still remain
undecided.
And what's so fascinating is, we
started the
race where people were unhappy
with the world.
They remain unhappy with the
world, but they're
more unhappy with the
candidates.
I mean, they look at one as
unfit and the
other as untrustworthy.
So, these poor people are
reaching the end
of the road, and, essentially,
they don't
know what to do.
The interesting thing is, there
were three
women in the group, all of whom
should be
in the Republican column, and
they would like
to be there, but they just
cannot stomach
Donald Trump.
They don't find him as
acceptable.
They find him as a bully.
They find him as a baby.
They just -- everything about
him bothers
them.
So they can't be with him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Whit, have we
seen anything
-- have you seen anything like
this in your
years of polling?
WHIT AYRES: We have never seen
anything like
Donald Trump before and probably
won't for
the rest of our lives.
(LAUGHTER)
WHIT AYRES: It's amazing,
though, Judy.
Two-thirds of the people in this
country are
unsatisfied with the direction
of the country.
They want a change.
You would think that Donald
Trump would be
able to tap into that
successfully, but he
has run his entire campaign
preaching to the
converted and trashing everyone
else.
Consequently, he basically is
ending the campaign
right where he started it,
somewhere in the
low 40s.
And so a general election
strategy that involves
revving up your own supporters,
but not reaching
out, is not a successful
strategy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Peter, back
to this question
about where the race is overall,
is there
a path to victory for Donald
Trump at this
point?
PETER HART: No.
And I say that.
Obviously, turnout is critical.
And African-Americans are less
enthusiastic
than they were in 2008 and 2012.
Hispanics are -- seem to be as
interested,
millennials much less
interested.
So, I think Barack Obama becomes
the key to
this.
He has been an exceptional
surrogate, and
essentially bringing across
those voters.
And I think Michelle Obama has
become sort
of the moral center of this
campaign, and
there's nobody that we have
found that is
more popular.
So, I actually think the Obamas
become the
legacy and the reason that
Hillary Clinton
can win.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Whit, what do you
see?
Do you see there's a path of
some kind for
Donald Trump?
WHIT AYRES: It would be like
drawing an inside
straight.
He would have to win every
single swing state
that's remotely close right now,
and that's
a very, very high hill to climb
with less
than two weeks to go.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Whit, you were
also telling
us that -- something that
strikes but this
election year is the separation
between what
you call the Trump brand and the
Republican
brand.
What did you mean by that?
WHIT AYRES: There's a dramatic
difference
between the Trump brand and the
Republican
brand, in part because Trump is
not really
a Republican.
What that means for down-ballot
races is...
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Senate and
the House.
WHIT AYRES: Yes, the Senate and
the House,
is that a lot of Republican
candidates are
running well ahead of Donald
Trump, even in
these swing states.
Candidates like Rob Portman in
Ohio, Marco
Rubio in Florida, Chuck Grassley
in Iowa,
John McCain in Arizona are all
running well
ahead of Trump.
And that is the hope that
Republicans have
that we could actually do well
in congressional
and Senate races.
It bears mentioning that when
Bob Dole lost
to Bill Clinton in 1996 by 8.5
points, Republicans
picked up two Senate seats.
So it's not unheard of.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Peter, how do you
see these
Senate races going?
PETER HART: Well, I think the
Senate is -- the
Republicans are having a very
difficult time,
because they have so many seats
up, and the
mentions that Whit made are
important.
But you really have to go to a
different side
of it.
You look at so many of these
states, whether
it is Pennsylvania or New
Hampshire or even
North Carolina and Wisconsin and
Illinois,
all of those seats are going to
be Democratic
seats, in part because they will
have the
coattails of Hillary Clinton.
And you can add Missouri there.
So, I think the Democrats are
going to have
the majority, I think somewhere
in 51 to 52
seats.
That would be my take.
WHIT AYRES: I'm not willing to
concede all
those seats today, Peter.
(LAUGHTER)
WHIT AYRES: I think a lot of
them are very
close.
I think Republicans are running
very good
campaigns for the Senate in
those -- in those
states.
And I am not giving up hope that
Republicans
can hold on to both the House
and the Senate.
PETER HART: Underline hope.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: We're going to
have you both
back after the election and look
at the numbers.
Peter Hart, Whit Ayres, thank
you both.
WHIT AYRES: Thank you.
Enjoyed being with you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Appreciate it.
Another big numbers focus during
this election
has been on money, how the
candidates have
raised and spent it, and what
that says about
their campaigns.
Matea Gold covers money and
influence for
The Washington Post, and she
joins us now.
Matea, welcome back to the
program.
So, tell us, what do we know at
this point
about what Donald Trump and
Hillary Clinton,
how much they have raised and
how much they
have spent?
MATEA GOLD, The Washington Post:
So, what's
remarkable is that Hillary
Clinton has raised
more than double Donald Trump,
and her campaign
committee, nearly $500 million,
to his $219
million.
And so she is by default also
vastly outspending
him.
In the month of September, she
plowed $95
million into her campaign
effort; $66 million
of that went into television ads
alone.
Donald Trump spent a third of
that on television
ads, as he's trying to really
build up his
voter file.
We saw a lot of money going into
getting voter
data, but really he is getting
outflanked
by Clinton on the money race in
every regard.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What else can you
tell us,
Matea, about what they're
spending money on,
staff organization,
get-out-the-vote?
MATEA GOLD: What is really
interesting is,
if you look at the campaign
spending strategy,
you see a reflection of the
infrastructure
that they have invested in.
So, Clinton, for example, had
815 staffers
on her payroll at the end of
September.
That's compared to 168 staffers
that Trump
had on his payroll.
And what you see in there is the
investment
that Clinton is making in a
ground game.
She has staffers deployed all
across the country
in an effort to turn out the
vote.
Trump, on the other hand, is
leaning much
more heavily on the RNC to
provide that voter
mobilization effort.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, Matea, you
were telling
us, it's interesting to look at
how much Donald
Trump himself is putting into
his campaign.
What do you see in that regard?
MATEA GOLD: What's been very
curious is that
Trump continues to insist that
he's putting
$100 million, if not more, into
his campaign
of his own personal funds.
As of now, we have only seen $56
million.
That's a large sum, but
obviously not close
to $100 million.
He has a very short remaining
window of time
to put in the remaining $44
million, and we
will see if that actually comes
to be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what about in
terms of
reimbursing himself, the
campaign?
How does that work and how
typical is that?
MATEA GOLD: So, the Trump
campaign has used
a lot of Trump properties as he
has been making
his bid for the White House.
They have had events at Trump
hotels.
They have their campaign
headquarters in Trump
Tower.
And, under the law, he's not
allowed to let
those companies donate those
services.
So, he does have to reimburse
them for it.
But his decision to use Trump
companies in
the pursuit of his campaign
means that he's
also putting a lot of money back
into his
own companies, more than $9
million to date,
including $1 million in
reimbursements last
month.
So, the majority of that money
has gone to
reimburse TAG Air, which is his
private airline.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, Matea, you
also wrote
this week that Donald Trump has
decided some
days ago to stop holding
big-dollar fund-raising
events for himself and the GOP.
Why do that?
MATEA GOLD: So, it is typical at
this point
for the presidential candidates
to get off
the money circuit and just stick
to campaign
events and rallies.
But what's unusual is, the Trump
campaign
didn't set up a schedule of
fund-raising events
for surrogates to continue to
bring in high-dollar
donations to support party in
these final
days.
Clinton has 41 events scheduled
on the books
between now and November 3.
The Trump campaign now says they
have a handful
of events.
They might do more ad hoc
events.
But they have taken a very
different approach
to this.
They said that they are raising
a lot of money
online, some of which will go to
the partly,
but the majority of their
efforts right now
are on -- is on making his case
to voters.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, finally,
Matea, you were
talking to us about what you
have noted in
terms of how Clinton is raising
big sums of
money from groups that were,
frankly, enabled
to give money by that famous
Supreme Court
decision Citizens United.
MATEA GOLD: Right.
One thing that is such a
dramatic storyline
in the money race, I think, this
year is the
full embrace by Clinton of super
PACs, which
were really entities that
President Obama
was very reluctant to support
and use to his
reelection advantage.
But, by contrast, Clinton, from
the very beginning
of her race, made it clear that
she wanted
donors to support these groups.
Because of that, she's been able
to raise,
in conjunction with super PACs
and the party,
$1.1 billion in pursuit of the
White House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, finally, you
said that
you were surprised the Democrats
have raised
as much money as they have this
cycle.
MATEA GOLD: Well, I don't think
anyone would
have predicted when the cycle
started that
Democrats would win at the money
race.
But we have seen that the super
PACs that
have formed to support Trump
have not been
very well-organized.
They have gotten conflicting
messages from
the campaign.
And, because of that, donors
have been reluctant,
until recently, to write big
checks.
Because the Democrats were so
organized on
the big-money front, they have
been able to
collect large checks from the
very beginning
of this race, and now they have
the resources
to use that money in the final
stretch.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A remarkable set
of stories.
Nobody follows this more closely
than you
do.
Matea Gold with The Washington
Post, we thank
you.
MATEA GOLD: Thanks, Judy.
HARI SREENIVASAN: More than ever
before, a
big part of this election
campaign has played
itself out on social media.
No doubt the candidates and
their campaigns
have tried to take advantage of
these platforms.
But there's been a much bigger
role this year
as well for unseen players.
You might call it the rise of
the bots.
Miles O'Brien has the story,
part of our weekly
reporting about on the Leading
Edge of science
and technology.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Donald supported the invasion of
Iraq.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Wrong.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: That is
absolutely
proved over and over again.
DONALD TRUMP: Wrong.
Wrong.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: He
actually...
MILES O'BRIEN: Much as we may
wish otherwise,
the race for the Oval Office is
not over.
But there is already one clear
winner, by
acclamation, Twitter.
Thanks to a candidate who
prefers campaigning
in 140-character spurts, the
social networking
platform has become an essential
political
forum.
What could go wrong with that?
Plenty.
Tweeters, beware.
FILIPPO MENCZER, Indiana
University: Because
so much of the opinions that we
form and the
information that we digest comes
from social
networks and social media, it is
possible
to try and manipulate the
network to control
opinions.
MILES O'BRIEN: Filippo Menczer
is director
of the Center for Complex
Networks and Systems
at Indiana University.
He says the junction of the
political and
computer sciences is a dangerous
place for
democracy.
FILIPPO MENCZER: Just like
people have tried
to influence elections forever
without social
media, why wouldn't they also
try with social
media?
Just like any other tool and
technology, it
can be used for good things and
it can also
be manipulated or abused.
MILES O'BRIEN: Menczer and his
team are researching
the shadowy world of bots,
software programmed
to mimic humans and engage with
them.
You probably encounter bots all
the time
ACTRESS: What's my day look
like?
COMPUTER VOICE: Not bad.
Only two meetings today.
MILES O'BRIEN: Whether it's
Apple's Siri.
ACTOR: Alexa, play rock music.
COMPUTER VOICE: Rock music.
MILES O'BRIEN: Amazon's Alexa.
ACTOR: Alexa, stop.
MILES O'BRIEN: Or the chat box
that pops up
offering advice when your cable
TV is on the
fritz.
A good one is hard to
differentiate from a
real person.
And that's the trouble.
Clever bots, employed in a
stealthy, strategic
manner, can put a virtual finger
on the scale
of political discourse.
Bots generated a huge volume of
tweets pro
and con during the Brexit vote
in the United
Kingdom.
They also promoted candidates in
the 2014
India elections.
ISIS uses bots to amplify
propaganda by creating
thousands of phony accounts.
FILIPPO MENCZER: It's like very
easy to create
one or 10 or 100 or 1,000
accounts controlled
by that campaign and make it
look like these
are just regular people who are
expressing
their freedom of speech.
MILES O'BRIEN: Bots first reared
their ugly
heads in U.S. presidential
politics in 2012.
Mitt Romney got caught buying
bots when he
gained more than 140,000
followers in two
days.
For a few dollars, anyone can
buy a few thousand
bots that can be deployed to
strengthen your
Twitter prowess.
But this go-round, the bots are
doing much
more than providing artificial
popularity.
Phil Howard is a professor of
the Internet
at Oxford University.
PHIL HOWARD, Oxford University:
You program
the bots that are following you
to repeat
your message.
And what happens is that a
larger and larger
number of people see the
retweets and think,
this is an important position
paper or this
is a great new idea.
DONALD TRUMP: You're talking
about taking
out ISIS, but you were there and
you were
secretary of state when it was a
little infant.
MILES O'BRIEN: Howard analyzed
tweets during
the first presidential debate.
He found bots were behind
one-fifth of pro-Clinton
Twitter traffic, and nearly
one-third of pro-Trump
tweets.
PHIL HOWARD: The real problem
here is that
not all users can tell when the
content that
comes up in their social media
feed is actually
generated by these bots.
It's very difficult to know what
the overall
impact is on public opinion, but
we do know
that most Americans can't
distinguish these
bots from real users.
MILES O'BRIEN: It's hard enough
for computer
scientists and, for that matter,
Twitter itself.
The company admits 8.5 percent
of its accounts
are updated with no discernible
human action.
But that includes useful
applications like
TweetDeck, as well as harmful
bots.
Finding them is a challenge.
Menczer and his team are working
on this.
They visualize Twitter traffic,
helping them
find accounts that look and act
suspiciously
nonhuman.
FILIPPO MENCZER: Very often,
there are patterns
that we can still discern.
They're not necessarily easy for
the human
eye, but, sometimes, the
machine-learning
algorithms, by looking at over
1,000 features,
they can recognize some patterns
that make
one particular account similar
to other bots.
MILES O'BRIEN: The result is a
Web site called
BotOrNot, which analyzes Twitter
accounts
based on the frequency of
tweets, the type
of networks and friends, and the
sentiment
the tweets convey.
This Twitterbot account simply
repeats pro-Hillary
Reddit postings.
BotOrNot predicts it is 70
percent likely
to be a bot.
PHIL HOWARD: One of the fun
things about studying
bots is that it's very difficult
based on
the code alone to predict what
they will do.
And even designers can't always
predict what
a bot will do.
MILES O'BRIEN: Brad Hayes can
attest to that.
He is a postdoctoral associate
at MIT.
He read a Boston Globe article
that concluded
Donald Trump speaks at the level
of a fourth-grader.
To him, that sounded like good
grist for some
Twitterbot fun.
BRAD HAYES, Postdoctoral
Associate, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology: I went
to work, and
I created this bot, and I went
through and
grabbed all of the transcripts I
could find
from his speeches, the
Republican debates,
from his Twitter feed, basically
anything,
any kind of Donald Trump
information, things
that he has said, such that I
could train
the statistical model on that.
MILES O'BRIEN: His bot,
DeepDrumpf, doesn't
understand language, per se, but
rather detects
patterns in the sequence of
letters.
DONALD TRUMP: A lot of things
are going on
folks, a lot of things.
MILES O'BRIEN: By analyzing
reams of Trump
speeches, it can make
statistically valid
and frequently humorous
predictions of how
the real Donald Trump might
complete sentences
that Brad begins.
BRAD HAYES: "I'm a great judge
of this country.
We have to control everybody and
let them
fight each other.
They won't refuse me.
I will make a fortune."
MILES O'BRIEN: What's your best
tweet?
BRAD HAYES: "If I don't win in
the end, I
will fire the entire American
people.
We cannot achieve peace if I
don't want it."
MILES O'BRIEN: Does it kind of
surprise you
at times what comes out?
BRAD HAYES: Absolutely.
As a computer scientist, the
most surprising
thing is that this kind of
simple model can
create such great results.
MILES O'BRIEN: Which is why he
doesn't let
his bot tweet without human
supervision.
DeepDrumpf is all in good fun
and clearly
labeled a bot.
But, tweeter, beware of the more
nefarious
bots that lurk out there in the
Twitterverse.
What may seem like a viral
grassroots movement
can be nothing more than an
empty field covered
with Astroturf.
So, take a moment to check
before you retweet.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," Boston.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
where economic
worries meet white nationalism;
and the first
American author to win the
esteemed Man Booker
Prize.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But first: The
Defense Department
today tried to defuse a
burgeoning controversy
surrounding recruitment bonuses
for soldiers.
The Pentagon faced a mounting
outcry for trying
to recoup enlistment bonuses
from thousands
of California National Guard
members.
But Defense Secretary Ash Carter
interrupted
a visit today to NATO
headquarters in Brussels
to address the issue.
ASHTON CARTER, U.S. Defense
Secretary: I have
ordered the suspension of all
efforts to collect
reimbursement from affected
California Guard
members, and that suspension
will continue
until I'm satisfied that our
process is working.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Over the
weekend, The Los
Angeles Times reported
California Guard soldiers
are being asked to repay bonuses
of $15,000
or more.
The payments were an effort to
meet enlistment
goals during the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan.
They were intended for soldiers
with skills
in high demand, but recruiters
doled them
out improperly.
Some of the soldiers say, it's
not their fault.
SGT. 1ST CLASS BRYAN STROTHER,
California
National Guard: I had done
everything that
they had asked of me.
These were promises that were
made.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The push to
take back the
bonus money has also drawn angry
reactions
from Congress.
Secretary Carter says he wants
all the cases
resolved by July 1.
We take a closer look at this
now with Los
Angeles Times reporter David
Cloud, who broke
this story, and Sergeant 1st
Class Robert
Richmond.
He reenlisted in the California
National Guard
in 2006 and received a $15,000
bonus, but
then was told he needed to pay
the money back.
David, what's happening now in
terms of what
the secretary of defense said
today?
What does his order do?
DAVID CLOUD, The Los Angeles
Times: Well,
his order halts the recoupment
of all of these
cases right now, and sets up a
process to
essentially speed up the appeals
process that
many soldiers have gone through
and have,
you know, in a very frustrating
way, you know,
gone through years of efforts to
try to get
this recoupment stopped.
So, the Pentagon is setting up a
process to
speed up those appeals.
HARI SREENIVASAN: How did we get
here?
How did we get to the point that
he had to
say, stop this?
DAVID CLOUD: It's a long tale
that really
began in 2006, when the Guard
and the Army
as a whole needed troops to go
to Iraq and
to Afghanistan.
So, they started paying large
bonuses, and
they started paying without a
lot of controls.
And, in fact, there was a fair
amount of fraud
in what was done.
Soldiers didn't know about that.
They -- most soldiers didn't
know about that.
They took the money in good
faith, completed
their enlistments.
And then, a decade later, they
get a bill
from the Pentagon or from the
National Guard
saying, you have got to pay us
this money
back.
A lot of them are justifiably
shocked.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Robert
Richmond, you were
one of those soldiers that had
this happen
to them.
How much did this money mean to
you when you
got it?
And, more important, what
happened to you
when you were requested to
return it?
SGT. 1ST CLASS ROBERT RICHMOND,
U.S. Army
Special Forces: Well, for me
personally, the
money meant something.
For other soldiers, because I'm
just one of
many, it meant the world.
These other soldiers, it
probably was everything,
that they relied on that bonus
solely for
this.
For me, I partially relied on
it.
I had choices to go into the
civilian sector,
where I could earn a lot more
money, even
working as an adviser in a
civilian capacity.
But I asked if I was eligible
for a bonus.
They said I was eligible for
$15,000 for six
years.
I knew for a fact that that
enlistment would
send me back to Iraq.
However, it was enough.
And with the camaraderie of
being with my
unit, it was enough for me to
make the decision
to go ahead and enlist for
another six years.
When they came back 10 years --
you know,
nine years later, actually, and
said I have
to pay this money back, I was in
shock, in
awe.
And the more that it went on, I
just felt
betrayed.
I felt it just -- it lacked
empathy.
I felt like I was some sort of a
criminal,
and they're -- going to give it
back right
now, or they were going to ruin
my life financially,
turning me in.
And it was very threatening.
HARI SREENIVASAN: David, you
said the government
has already recouped, what,
about $22 million
of it.
What happens to the people who
have repaid
sums of money that perhaps
shouldn't have?
DAVID CLOUD: That's a very good
question and
is one that will be difficult to
untangle.
There are soldiers I know, one
in particular,
who owed $46,000, and to pay
that off, he
and his family refinanced their
home.
So, they took steps that cost
them money to
pay off the money.
To now go back and make them
whole will not
be an easy task.
But it's one that I think the
Pentagon will
look at.
I mean, this has generated so
much outrage
in Congress and so much
attention that I think
people who, you know, did take
the steps to
pay the money back, even
thinking that they
didn't really owe it, will in
some sense be
made whole.
I'm not sure they will be made
totally whole,
but they will get some money
back.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Robert, I see
you shaking
you head.
One of the people that David
spoke to in the
story, she said, you know, go
ahead, fine,
take the money back, but give me
my years
back, too.
Where does this leave you?
SGT. 1ST CLASS ROBERT RICHMOND:
Yes, it certainly
won't make me whole.
You know, what I did in the
military and what
I did -- you know, what happened
to me, that
-- I signed a contract.
I did that.
That's fine.
If you gave me my $15,000 bonus
back, that
would hardly make me whole,
because by -- with
what they did to me, they ruined
my credit.
They ruined my finances.
I have so many financial losses
as a result.
And I'm just -- I'm in the
middle of the group.
There are soldiers out there
that have probably
suffered so bad financially and
emotionally
that they will never be able to
recover just
by giving them their money back.
It's not even close.
HARI SREENIVASAN: David, it
seems -- there
seems to be some agreement right
now in Congress
to say, this is horrible.
By coincidence, there's an
election two weeks
out.
And part of your reporting
showed that Congress
was notified about this a couple
of years
ago.
DAVID CLOUD: Yes.
That's an interesting part of
the story.
I mean, when the story broke on
Saturday,
you know, in the days after, you
had a lot
of members of Congress putting
out press releases
expressing a lot of outrage
about it, saying
something needed to be done.
As the story came out, it turned
out the California
Guard had gone to members of the
California
delegation two years earlier and
asked them
to pass a provision that would
have helped
allay some of these cases.
The provision wasn't passed at
the time.
Several members did initially
propose it.
It was dropped because it would
have cost
money.
And this was a time when
sequestration, across-the-board
cuts in the military budget were
happening.
There was just a resistance to
doing that
sort of thing.
So, nothing happened until it
appeared in
our newspaper.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Robert, you
set up a petition
online, and I'm assuming that
even before
that, you have been listening to
and hearing
from other soldiers.
Give us a sense of how
widespread this is.
We are focusing on California
right now, but
there are National Guard members
across the
country.
SGT. 1ST CLASS ROBERT RICHMOND:
That's absolutely
right.
When I first received my letter,
I honestly
thought I was the only one.
And while I was calling people
and asking
questions, I came to find out
there was nearly
17,000 soldiers affected, was
the first number
I heard.
Then I heard it was 16,000 in
California and
at least 1,000 nationwide.
Recently, by doing my petition,
people write
to me all the time because I
have my contact
information in there.
I recently was reached out to by
somebody
from the actual Navy who is
having the same
issues.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Sergeant 1st
Class Robert Richmond and David
Cloud of The
L.A. Times, thank you both for
joining us
tonight.
DAVID CLOUD: Thank you.
SGT. 1ST CLASS ROBERT RICHMOND:
Thank you
very much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The number of
white nationalist
groups has surged in the United
States over
the past couple of years.
Experts say they have been
energized by the
divisive rhetoric of this year's
presidential
campaign.
The "NewsHour"'s P.J. Tobia met
with the leaders
of one group and produced this
report.
And a warning: Some may find the
imagery and
symbols in this story
disturbing.
P.J. TOBIA: Late summer, in the
hills of East
Tennessee, a small group of
white power activists
hold a meeting.
There's merchandise, music, and
a rewriting
of history.
MAN: Despite the mythology,
Russian Jews were
never oppressed in any way.
P.J. TOBIA: Later, the group
goes to a nearby
town for a rally, in the center
of it all,
Matthew Heimbach.
MATTHEW HEIMBACH, Co-Founder,
Traditionalist
Worker Party: Because a white
homeland shall
be our homeland.
P.J. TOBIA: Just 25 years old,
the Southern
Poverty Law Center has called
Heimbach the
face of a new generation of
white nationalists.
In 2015, he founded the
Traditionalist Worker
Party.
They're white separatists who
want distinct
homelands in the U.S. for whites
and blacks.
They want Jews out of the
country entirely.
Are you guys racists?
MATTHEW HEIMBACH: The definition
of racist
is thrown around all the time in
America,
and it's used almost exclusively
just to determine
any white people that want to be
able to advocate
for their best interests.
P.J. TOBIA: But there were Nazis
and all kinds
of very strident anti-minority
propaganda.
Anyone with a Nazi symbol on
them is going
to be considered a racist, if
not racially
insensitive.
MATTHEW HEIMBACH: And so our
movement is moving
towards being a European-style
nationalist
movement.
And I respect all my comrades
from other organizations.
They might take a little bit of
a different
presentation than we do.
And you can see what direction
our movement
is moving in.
And I'm happy to be a part of
that.
P.J. TOBIA: This election
season, Heimbach
is supporting Donald Trump.
In March, he was caught on tape
shoving a
young African-American woman as
she was being
escorted out of a Trump rally.
When he's not on the road
preaching white
nationalism, Heimbach lives
here, the southern
Indiana town of Paoli.
Just steps from the town square,
Heimbach
moved his family to this
two-acre plot.
Matt Parrott, Heimbach's friend
and co-founder
of the Traditionalist Worker
Party, bought
the land in a bank repossession.
A handful of Heimbach's other
followers have
joined them.
Their plan?
To build a community of
like-minded separatists
in this rural enclave.
From the Ku Klux Klan to
skinheads, white
power groups are nothing new in
the United
States.
But, in recent years, their
numbers have grown,
drawing disaffected whites who
say they feel
increasingly marginalized in
America 2016.
Heimbach sees overlap between
Trump's message
and white nationalist ideology.
MATTHEW HEIMBACH: He has shown
us that the
majority of everyday Americans
support our
sort of message.
They're tired of globalism,
they're tired
of rampant capitalism, they're
tired of Wall
Street being put first, instead
of Main Street.
P.J. TOBIA: At 34, Matt Parrott
is one of
the older members of Heimbach's
group.
He's lived in Paoli most of his
life.
He gave me a tour.
MATT PARROTT, Co-Founder,
Traditionalist Worker
Party: Everything's winding up
and closing
down.
All through here, you see
business for sale,
business for sale.
Up there, that business is also
for sale.
When I was growing up, like,
everybody's dad
worked in a factory.
You would have the dad working
in a factory
and you would have the
stay-at-home mom.
And now both mom and dad are
working some
crappy service job that doesn't
pay benefits,
oftentimes that's just
part-time.
P.J. TOBIA: He blames this
decline on global
trade policies.
Using a common anti-Semitic
trope, he blames
one group in particular.
MATT PARROTT: The globalist
trade and things
like that are largely due to the
global Jewish
economic and banking interests.
P.J. TOBIA: Parrott says that
all of this
has fueled both white
nationalism and support
for Trump.
MATT PARROTT: He taps into a
deep sense of
foreboding in white America.
P.J. TOBIA: Heimbach says this
foreboding
comes from new attitudes in
America.
Chief among his complaints?
The increasing cultural currency
of the Black
Lives Matter movement and the
notion of white
privilege.
MATTHEW HEIMBACH: I would dare
anyone to go
into the hollers of West
Virginia, or Kentucky,
or the communities that have
been destroyed
by globalism around this
country, where the
communities have literally been
torn apart,
and look in the eyes of white
working-class
men, women and children, and
tell them that
they have any power in this
system whatsoever.
CAROL ANDERSON, Emory
University: Economic
anxieties play into it.
I think I would say that it's
more hyped than
real.
P.J. TOBIA: Carol Anderson is a
professor
at Emory University and the
author of "White
Rage: The Unspoken Truth of Our
Racial Divide."
CAROL ANDERSON: It is racism,
pure, unabashed,
unadulterated, as I say, USDA
grade-A prime
beef racism.
Race is framing this discussion,
even when
it seems cloaked in language
such as law and
order or stop and frisk.
That's race.
P.J. TOBIA: Race, combined with
fear.
CAROL ANDERSON: What we're
seeing is a fear
in America that this America is
becoming vastly
more multicultural, vastly more
diverse.
It leads to a question about,
what will happen
to the resources of this nation,
as they have
to become more equitably shared
and distributed
based on merit, and not skin
color?
P.J. TOBIA: This is not just an
American phenomenon.
White nationalist groups have
surged in Europe.
Heimbach frequently meets with
the leaders
of European nationalist groups,
like Greece's
Golden Dawn and the National
Democratic Party
in Germany.
They all want immigrants kept
out of their
countries.
MAN: You know what?
Yes, make American great again,
build a wall,
kick these people out.
This is my country.
This all belongs to me.
P.J. TOBIA: Trump has earned the
endorsement
of a number of prominent
racists.
Former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard
David Duke
mentioned Trump in his
announcement of a Senate
run in Louisiana.
DAVID DUKE, Former Imperial
Wizard of the
Ku Klux Klan: I'm overjoyed to
see Donald
Trump and most Americans embrace
most of the
issues that I have championed
for years.
P.J. TOBIA: In the run-up to the
Iowa caucus,
well-known white power writer
Jared Taylor
recorded this anti-Muslim
immigrant robocall
that went out to Iowa voters.
JARED TAYLOR, White Power
Writer: We don't
need Muslims.
We need smart, well-educated
white people
who will assimilate to our
culture.
Vote Trump.
P.J. TOBIA: Hard statistics on
white nationalist
groups are difficult to come by.
But the Southern Poverty Law
Center says the
number of hate groups in the
U.S. increased
by 14 percent last year.
A recent report by the
Anti-Defamation League
said that anti-Semitic Twitter
attacks on
journalists spiked early this
year.
Words like Trump, nationalist
and white appeared
frequently in the bios of users
publishing
the tweets.
White power Web site Stormfront
sees a 30
percent to 40 percent increase
in traffic
when Trump makes news on
immigration or Muslims,
according to an interview with
the site's
owner.
Critics charge that Trump has
been slow to
reject the embrace of alt-right
groups and
racists, including David Duke's
endorsement.
They also say Trump has echoed
the language
used by groups like Heimbach's.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
This election will determine
whether we are
a free nation or whether we have
only the
illusion of democracy, but are
in fact controlled
by a small handful of global
special interests
rigging the system.
And our system is rigged.
Anyone who challenges their
control is deemed
a sexist, a racist, a xenophobe,
and morally
deformed.
P.J. TOBIA: The Trump campaign
did not respond
to a request for comment for
this story.
Heimbach and his followers say
Trump's rhetoric
stops short of their ethnic
ideology.
Even if the candidate loses,
they think this
campaign has opened the door for
what they
hope will be a wider following.
MATTHEW HEIMBACH: It's about
these ideas of
nationalism, not globalism.
That's what we're building
towards.
And Donald Trump is just
introducing these
ideas to a lot of new people.
But we were here before, and
we're going to
be here after.
P.J. TOBIA: P.J. Tobia, "PBS
NewsHour," in
Southern Indiana.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Online, we
explore concerns
about racial bias in policing
and a decade-old
FBI warning about white
supremacists infiltrating
law enforcement.
That's at PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally
tonight, a very
different look at race and a
first in the
world of books.
An American has won the
prestigious Man Booker
Prize.
The honor was originally
established for British
Commonwealth and Irish writers.
But, three years ago, all
English-language
authors became eligible.
And, last night, Paul Beatty
became the first
American winner for his novel
"The Sellout,"
a biting satire of race in this
country, in
which a black man decides to
resegregate his
hometown.
Jeffrey Brown spoke with him
when the book
came out last year.
Here's another look.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, Paul
Beatty, welcome.
PAUL BEATTY, Author, "The
Sellout": Thanks
for having me.
JEFFREY BROWN: This is a
thorough skewering
through humor of racial politics
today.
And no one is spared.
What set you off?
What are you responding to?
(LAUGHTER)
PAUL BEATTY: I'm just kind of
responding to
myself, I guess.
It's not like there is some
impetus that's
like, oh, I have got to write
about that.
It's just stuff that I have been
thinking
about for a long time.
And I just have been thinking
about segregation
for some reason, no -- I think I
had read
something about somebody saying,
oh, black
people were better off under
segregation.
And I just went, oh, it would be
so fun to
try to
see how segregation would work
now, in a weird
kind of guise.
JEFFREY BROWN: So your
character, nameless
character, young black man, he
tries to resegregate
his city, in a sense.
PAUL BEATTY: Yes.
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: In order to save
it, right?
PAUL BEATTY: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Strangely enough.
PAUL BEATTY: He doesn't know
that he's doing
that, and that the city is
already segregated.
JEFFREY BROWN: It is de facto --
it is segregated.
PAUL BEATTY: In many different
ways.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes, yes, as is
much of our
life today still.
PAUL BEATTY: Exactly.
It's interesting in the book how
acknowledging
that you're being segregated
changes your
behavior a little bit.
JEFFREY BROWN: But it allows you
to look at
every black piety, at every
liberal piety.
It's easy in a way to kind of
skewer out-and-out
racism.
PAUL BEATTY: Yes.
Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: But you're doing
-- you are
getting everybody.
PAUL BEATTY: Yes.
I think it's -- I'm not very
pious about anything,
fortunately, but I'm skewering
myself first.
I'm skewering things that I care
about and
things that are important to me
and then just
my own foibles.
For me, it's just this stuff
that I'm thinking
about, like these absurdities in
the way we
talk about race, class, culture,
education,
politics.
JEFFREY BROWN: What absurdities?
What do we get wrong?
PAUL BEATTY: We get it all
wrong.
There's no right.
And I think that is part of it,
is, like,
we think that there is this
weird utopian
endgame to life, not just racial
politics.
And for me, it's a weird way to
try to live
life.
And it's not to say that we
shouldn't aspire
to those things.
So a thing I have been hearing
about lately
is some people always say, oh,
it's hard to
talk about race.
We can't have the discussion.
I'm, like, well, what does that
really mean?
I don't understand what that
discussion is
and where this metaphorical
table -- you know,
we have got to come to the
table.
I don't know where these tables
are.
(LAUGHTER)
PAUL BEATTY: So, yes, I get to
set my own
table a little bit.
JEFFREY BROWN: At the same time,
though, of
course, these are very serious
issues.
In your book, the narrator's
father is shot
by police in an area around Los
Angeles, and
that's very real stuff.
PAUL BEATTY: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: But your approach
is completely
through humor.
PAUL BEATTY: Yes, through humor
and through
my own experience.
So, like, the shooting is
something that's
sort of personal to me.
It wasn't like, oh, people are
getting shot,
let me write about that.
I'm really starting from myself,
and I'm not
starting from current events or
what it is
in the news or some "TIME"
magazine sidebar
about this stuff.
JEFFREY BROWN: Are we too
squeamish?
I was thinking to myself, one of
the problems
I have even in quoting from the
book is your
very liberal use of the N-word.
PAUL BEATTY: Yes.
Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right?
We can't sit here and read it.
We can't quote from it too much.
Are we too squeamish?
Are we just not talking
honestly?
PAUL BEATTY: I think it's like
-- like, when
I used to read poetry, people
would bring
me into like some high school to
read.
And I would say the F-word or
something.
And everybody acts so surprised,
like, oh,
I have never heard this word
before.
But they're saying it five
minutes later.
So I think there's a weird --
there's this
line between propriety and how
we really speak
and how we really think.
And I'm just trying to have fun
with that
stuff.
And you're talking about the
word (EXPLETIVE
DELETED).
I can't say the N-word for it.
I just even let myself say it
because it's
just so ridiculous.
There is a part of the book
where characters
talking about Mark Twain's
"Huckleberry Finn."
And that word is all throughout
there.
And this effort to eras that,
and so it's
weird.
I'm not sure why we're trying to
erase these
things, why we try to use these
euphemisms
all the time.
Like, what purpose is that
serving?
JEFFREY BROWN: Is this kind of
big satire
hard to pull off?
PAUL BEATTY: Yes, I don't try to
be satirical.
I just try to get what's in my
head on the
page.
And that part is hard for me to
do.
It takes a long, long time to
make it poetic,
somewhat essayistic.
And just I have a little bit of
an agenda.
That part is hard to pull off.
And the book is about a big
scope.
I think everybody focuses on
race, but it's
about a ton of things, and it's
because I
just see these things as all
interrelated
and all interwoven in a weird
way.
JEFFREY BROWN: And where does
your sense,
where does your love of writing
come from
or your need to write?
PAUL BEATTY: I couldn't tell
you, because
I can't say that I love writing,
but I do
love the satisfaction that it
gives me.
It's just -- it's really basic.
I'm glad I found -- I found that
late in life,
and I'm glad I found it at all.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
new novel is
"The Sellout."
Paul Beatty, thanks so much.
PAUL BEATTY: Thanks for having
me, Jeff.
Thank you, man.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: Gene detectives are putting
the record
straight when it comes to where,
when and
how the HIV virus epidemic began
in the United
States.
You can find that and more on
our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tune in later
tonight on
"Charlie Rose": a rare
conversation with two
sitting Supreme Court justices,
Ruth Bader
Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.